# turnierplan.NET

*An open-source tournament planning application for football clubs*

## Introduction

**turnierplan.NET** is mostly written in C# using [.NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/). This includes the core logic, the backend API and database connection as well as all publicly visible web pages. In addition, it serves the *turnierplan.NET portal*, the client application for authenticated users, based on the [Angular](https://angular.dev/) framework.

This readme describes how to deploy the application using the pre-built containers or how to get a local development environment up and running.

## Deployment

**turnierplan.NET** comes as a pre-built container image which can be deployed with minimal configuration.

> [!NOTE]
> This section will come later once container image tags are known

### Persisting Data

To persist the **turnierplan.NET** application data, create a Docker volume mapping to the `/var/turnierplan` folder inside the container.

> [!CAUTION]
> Treat the data as highly confidential as it contains the signing key used for issued JWT tokens!

### Environment Variables

The application can be configured by setting the following environment variables:

| Environment Variable                    | Description                                                                                                                                                                     | Required | Default |
|-----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|---------|
| `ApplicationUrl`                        | The URL which can be used to access your instance in the format `https://hostname-or-IP:port/`. The port can be omitted.                                                        | Yes      | -       |
| `Database__ConnectionString`            | The PostgreSQL connection string with read/write permission                                                                                                                     | Yes      | -       |
| `ApplicationInsights__ConnectionString` | Can be set if you wish that your instance sends telemetry data to [Azure Application Insights](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview) | No       | -       |

## Documentation

The developer documentation of **turnierplan.NET** is located in the `docs` directory of this repository.

## Development

First, you need to install the following tools:

- .NET 9.0 SDK
- node.js v22.x and npm
- your favourite IDE

To run the application from source, follow these steps:

1. Open the `src/Turnierplan.sln` solution and navigate to the docker compose file located under `Solution Items`. Run the `turnierplan.database` docker compose service. This will start up the PostgreSQL database for local development.
2. Navigate to the `Turnierplan.App` project and run the `Turnierplan.App` launch configuration. This will start the backend using port `45000`. In the console output, you should find a log message similar to `An initial user was created...`. This log message will contain the credentials of the initially created administrator account. Write down the password as it will not be shown again.
3. Open a terminal and navigate to the `src/Turnierplan.App/Client` directory. Run `npm install` to install the node dependencies. Next, you can start the client application by typing `npm run start`. Note that this will only work if the backend application has previously been run because the client app startup depends on OpenAPI files generated by the backend build process.
4. Access the client application using [http://localhost:45001](http://localhost:45001) and log in using the credentials you got from step `2`.

When running locally, the API documentation can be viewed by opening [http://localhost:45000/scalar](http://localhost:45000/scalar).

## Turnierplan.Adapter

If you want to use the **turnierplan.NET** API programatically in a .NET environment, you can use the `Turnierplan.Adapter` [package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Turnierplan.Adapter) which contains all model classes and an abstraction layer to easily query the API endpoints.

Add the package reference to your project:

```csproj
<ItemGroup>
  <PackageReference Include="Turnierplan.Adapter" Version="1.0.0" /> <!-- Use the latest version! -->
</ItemGroup>
```

In your program, instantiate the `TurnierplanClient` class providing your API key. Finally, you can query the API!

```cs
var config = new TurnierplanClientOptions("<ApiKey>", "<ApiKeySecret>")
{
  UserAgent = "<YourApplicationName>"
};

using var client = new TurnierplanClient(config);

var x = await client.GetTournaments("<FolderId>");
var y = await client.GetTournament("<TournamentId>");
